README.md, before:

# eddington2

A collection of code for calculating your
[Eddington number for cycling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Eddington#Eddington_number_for_cycling).
This will also calculate an author's [_h_-index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index),
which is mathematically equivalent but applied to a different field of interest.
Both of these numbers are specific applications of computing the side length of a
[Durfee square](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durfee_square).

This repo is a spin-off of a different project where I had the occasion to
write a php script for calculating my Eddington number. From there, I have
treated it as a sort of 
[programming chrestomathy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrestomathy) project 
*a la* [Rosetta Code](https://rosettacode.org).

## Languages

* awk
* bash
* C
* C++
* FORTRAN 90
* javascript (look in _docs/_)
* MySQL
* php
* python
* R
* SAS
* VBA (for use in Microsoft Excel)

More to come. Please feel free to contribute!

## The algorithms

The algorithms used throughout this repo fall into two general categories. The first, which I
creatively call _algorithm A_, relies on sorting the data. Although this is fast
enough for most use-cases, there are rare situations where the sorting operation
can be too computationally expensive. Also, this is not conducive to calculation
of a cumulative Eddington number, which would require separate sorting operations
for every new element of the dataset. This is trivial for small datasets but can
have a huge impact on larger datasets.

Therefore, I have developed a second algorithm (named _algorithm B_) which does
not require initial sorting of the data. The algorithm goes through the data only
once, keeping a running tally of E, and computing the summary value in linear time.
Since a running E is calculated as the algorithm iterates over the data, it
is an efficient way of computing the cumulative E.

It is also worth noting that with light modifications, it is possible to make
a database schema so that row insertions can calculate the new Eddington number in
constant time. At the expense of adding an extra table and a few columns, the E
number for new entries can be computed using a single row that captures the algorithm
state at the previous iteration, rather than using a rider's entire history for
each new row. I am exploring that in the larger project from which this repo is
a spin-off. I will share an example of this as it becomes available.

The two algorithms, A (slow) and B (fast) are shown below in python.

### A (slow)

```python
def E_num(rides) -> int:
    if not rides:
        return 0

    for E, ride in enumerate(sorted(rides, reverse=True), 1):
        if ride < E:
            E -= 1
            break

    return E
```

### B (fast)

```python
def E_num(rides) -> int:

    n, E, above = len(rides), 0, 0
    H = [0 for x in range(n)]

    for i in range(n):
        ride = int(rides[i])

        if ride > E:
            above += 1

            if ride < n:
                H[ride] += 1

            if above > E:
                E += 1
                above -= H[E]

    return E
```

## Deprecation

The entries in this repo are a mix of algorithms A and B. If both A and B
are present for a given langauage, I append _`-deprecated`_ to the file name
containing algorithm A.

Commit message:

linking online calculator to gh site and vice-versa

README.md, after:

# eddington2

A collection of code for calculating your
[Eddington number for cycling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Eddington#Eddington_number_for_cycling).
This will also calculate an author's [_h_-index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index),
which is mathematically equivalent but applied to a different field of interest.
Both of these numbers are specific applications of computing the side length of a
[Durfee square](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durfee_square).

This repo is a spin-off of a different project where I had the occasion to
write a php script for calculating my Eddington number. From there, I have
treated it as a sort of 
[programming chrestomathy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrestomathy) project 
*a la* [Rosetta Code](https://rosettacode.org).

If you're here because you just need a quick way to calculate your Eddington
number, check out the online calculator
[here](https://pegeler.github.io/eddington2/).

## Languages

* awk
* bash
* C
* C++
* FORTRAN 90
* javascript (look in _docs/_)
* MySQL
* php
* python
* R
* SAS
* VBA (for use in Microsoft Excel)

More to come. Please feel free to contribute!

## The algorithms

The algorithms used throughout this repo fall into two general categories. The first, which I
creatively call _algorithm A_, relies on sorting the data. Although this is fast
enough for most use-cases, there are rare situations where the sorting operation
can be too computationally expensive. Also, this is not conducive to calculation
of a cumulative Eddington number, which would require separate sorting operations
for every new element of the dataset. This is trivial for small datasets but can
have a huge impact on larger datasets.

Therefore, I have developed a second algorithm (named _algorithm B_) which does
not require initial sorting of the data. The algorithm goes through the data only
once, keeping a running tally of E, and computing the summary value in linear time.
Since a running E is calculated as the algorithm iterates over the data, it
is an efficient way of computing the cumulative E.

It is also worth noting that with light modifications, it is possible to make
a database schema so that row insertions can calculate the new Eddington number in
constant time. At the expense of adding an extra table and a few columns, the E
number for new entries can be computed using a single row that captures the algorithm
state at the previous iteration, rather than using a rider's entire history for
each new row. I am exploring that in the larger project from which this repo is
a spin-off. I will share an example of this as it becomes available.

The two algorithms, A (slow) and B (fast) are shown below in python.

### A (slow)

```python
def E_num(rides) -> int:
    if not rides:
        return 0

    for E, ride in enumerate(sorted(rides, reverse=True), 1):
        if ride < E:
            E -= 1
            break

    return E
```

### B (fast)

```python
def E_num(rides) -> int:

    n, E, above = len(rides), 0, 0
    H = [0 for x in range(n)]

    for i in range(n):
        ride = int(rides[i])

        if ride > E:
            above += 1

            if ride < n:
                H[ride] += 1

            if above > E:
                E += 1
                above -= H[E]

    return E
```

## Deprecation

The entries in this repo are a mix of algorithms A and B. If both A and B
are present for a given langauage, I append _`-deprecated`_ to the file name
containing algorithm A.
