R/package/README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# eddington

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN_version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/eddington)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=eddington)
[![Number_of_Downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/eddington)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=eddington)
<!-- badges: end -->

One statistic that cyclists are known to track is their Eddington
number. The Eddington number for cycling, *E*, is the maximum number
where a cyclist has ridden *E* miles on *E* distinct days. So to get a
number of 30, you need to have ridden 30 miles or more on 30 separate
days.

This package provides functions to compute a cyclist’s Eddington number,
including efficiently computing cumulative *E* over a vector. These
functions may also be used for *h*-indices for authors. Both are
specific applications of computing the side length of a Durfee square.

## Installation

You can install the released version of eddington from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("eddington")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("pegeler/eddington2/R/package")
```

## Example

Here is a basic example showing how to get the summary Eddington number
of the included **simulated** `rides` dataset. Note that we first have
to aggregate ride mileage by date.

``` r
library(eddington)
library(dplyr)

rides %>%
  group_by(ride_date) %>%
  summarize(n = n(), total = sum(ride_length)) %>% 
  summarize(E = E_num(total)) %>% 
  pull
#> [1] 29
```

See the package vignette for detailed usage.

Commit message:

R package can read GPX files (#15)
* beginning work on simple gpx reader and vignette for reading in gpx files

* adding match.arg to read_gpx

* adding some more tests

* annotation to lat/long in test

* documenting new functions

* fixing typos in docs

* setting up gpx tests

* completing gpx file unit tests

* adding examples to read_gpx and get_haversine_distance

R/package/README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# eddington

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN_version](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/eddington)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=eddington)
[![Number_of_Downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/eddington)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=eddington)
<!-- badges: end -->

One statistic that cyclists are known to track is their Eddington
number. The Eddington number for cycling, *E*, is the maximum number
where a cyclist has ridden *E* miles on *E* distinct days. So to get a
number of 30, you need to have ridden 30 miles or more on 30 separate
days.

This package provides functions to compute a cyclist’s Eddington number,
including efficiently computing cumulative *E* over a vector. These
functions may also be used for *h*-indices for authors. Both are
specific applications of computing the side length of a Durfee square.

The package can also be used to ingest GPS Exchange Format (GPX) files
into a `data.frame` format conducive to computing the Eddington number.

## Installation

You can install the released version of `eddington` from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("eddington")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("pegeler/eddington2/R/package")
```

## Example

Here is a basic example showing how to get the summary Eddington number
of the included **simulated** `rides` dataset. Note that we first have
to aggregate ride mileage by date.

``` r
library(eddington)
library(dplyr)

rides %>%
  group_by(ride_date) %>%
  summarize(n = n(), total = sum(ride_length)) %>% 
  summarize(E = E_num(total)) %>% 
  pull
#> [1] 29
```

See the package vignette for detailed usage.
